This time, let's switch over to our MVC web application.
We create a WebClientConfig class and annotate it
with the configuration annotation, then create a method that returns a WebClient,
this time accepting two arguments,
the ClientRegistrationRepository and the OAuth2AuthorizedClientRepository.
Spring will autowire these instances for us.
I'll describe what they're for shortly.
We use the builder on the WebClient class and return the build method.
We want the WebClient to automatically include the token along
with our request in the authorization header.
To do this, we can add an exchange filter,
which will intercept the request before going out and
add the authentication header for us.
Spring provides an OAuth2 filter function just for this purpose,
the ServletOAuth2AuthorizedClientExchange FilterFunction.
Now that's a bit of a mouthful.
To be honest, I had to practice that for some time, and it took me a few takes.
But the name will make sense to you shortly.
The filter function requires the clientRegistrationRepository and the
OAuth2 authorizedClientRepository in the constructor.
There are actually two flavors of the
OAuth2AuthorizedClientExchangeFilter Function,
the servlet and the server.
Because this is an MVC application, we use the servlet version.
If this was a reactive application,
then we would use the ServerOAuth2AuthorizedClientExchangeFilter Function.
Now the ClientRegistrationRepository is used by the OAuthFilterFunction
to retrieve the registered clients in our application.
And in our application,
it's the default in-memory version that loaded the client
information from our configuration file.
The filter function will need it to retrieve this information.
Whereas the OAuth2AuthorizedClientRepository is a
repository for authorized clients.
Now an authorized client is just that, a client that has been authorized, i.e.
it has a valid access token and optionally a refresh token.
So basically the OAuth flow has happened for that client.
The filter function will use the client registration to
retrieve a client's details to make the OAuth2 authorization
request to the authorization server and,
once authorized,
create an authorized client and store it in an authorized client repository
where it can be access for future requests by the filter function to add the
access token to the header until it expires.
Now we plug in the OAuthFilterFunction into our WebClient.
Okay, in our MvcController,
we are using WebClient to send REST requests to our portfolio microservice.
This time, we will let the ExchangeFilter function add the authorization header.
Now an advantage of this approach is that if there is a refresh token
and the client uses the authorization code grant,
the filter function will check the expiry.
And if it is within 1 minute of being expired,
it will request a new fresh token.
All the filter function needs to know is which authorized client we
want to use as we could have multiple configured.
One cool feature about the WebClient is you can add attributes to a request,
which can then be referenced by an ExchangeFilterFunction.
Here we can add the attribute for the OAuth2 filter function,
the registration ID of the client so it can look it up
in the authorizedClientRepository.
There is a static method on the OAuth exchange function we
can use to set the attribute it requires.
So in the attributes property, we can use the clientRegistrationId,
passing in crypto-portfolio.
The OAuth2ExchangeFilterFunction will now look for that
authorized client in the authorizedClientRepository.
If it can't find one there,
it then might attempt to authorize that client depending if
the grant type is appropriate for that.
Now we can also access the authorized client in our
controller by adding the RegisteredOauth2AuthorizedClient
annotation in our controller methods.
Now Spring will resolve it.
If we have multiple clients,
then we also need to specify the registration ID so
that it knows which one to retrieve.
And we can use the OAuth2AuthorizedClient method and pass that in.
Now let's test this.
If we put in a breakpoint in the portfolio service
BearerTokenAuthenticationFilter,
we can see the token that was sent to the portfolio service by the MVC web app.
You can also set the default client when configuring the ExchangeFilterFunction.
Now one thing to note is in the OAuthFilterFunction,
if the authorized client is using the authorize code grant,
the filter will check the expiry each time.
And by default, if it's within 1 minute of expiring,
it will check for a refresh token for that client.
If one exists, it will get a new token.
Now that's quite neat.
Our MVC web app is a client and can have access to a refresh token.
However, if we pass the access token down to other services,
we don't forward the refresh token.
So all the other services that might be downstream of that request
chain would not be able to refresh the token.
Hence, 1 minute might not be enough.
You might need to adjust the skew time based on the
average time of your total request time. Token relay with the